---
layout: post
categories: [web]
---

After reading
[this blog post](http://www.zurb.com/article/305/easily-turn-your-images-into-polaroids-wi),
I told myself this was the ideal opportunity to test the Compass software. The
**Let's adapt this awesome polaroid effect with fluid grids** operation began!

![Zurb effect](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-preview.jpg)

## Compass and Sass

[_Compass_](http://compass-style.org/) is a stylesheet authoring framework build
upon Ruby and [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) languages.

Basically, Ruby is required to install and run Compass. Sass is the language you
use to actually write your CSS: Sass is an extension of CSS3 that provides great
additional features:

- variables
- nested rules
- selector inheritance
- mixins

## Polaroid fluid grids with Compass

The original CSS provided by the Zurb blog's post can be easier to use and
customize if you use Compass' variables feature.

The original CSS contains many absolute sizes in pixels : `div` elements sizes,
image sizes, etc.

![Hard coded sizes in Zurb's code](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-1.png)

Thanks to fluid grids best practices ([cf. this previous post about fluid
grids][fluidgrid]), we can replace these absolute values by functional
configuration variables in Compass.

![Bring up some maths](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-2.png)

With this piece of code, changing the $columns et $polaroidwidth values inside
the screen.scss file, we can switch really easily to 3, 4 or 6 columns polaroid
grids.

![Polaroid effect on 6 columns](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-3.png)

![Polaroid effect on 4 columns](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-4.png)

![Polaroid effect on 3 columns](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-5.png)

## Demo

I used the CSS file Compass generated in [this post][1] on my deadrooster.org
website. Please notice the online CSS file still contains absolute values inside
it, but this time, the whole CSS file has been automatically generated by
Compass from variables-defined Sass sources.

The result is really convincing with Firefox 3.6.9 and even better with Google
Chrome (thanks again Zurb).

On iOS, the result is less attractive, where an aliasing issue degrades the
rotated images rendering.

![iPhone rendering of the Polaroid effect](../../assets/images/polaroid-effect-6.png)

## Getting the code better?

I've shared this Sass/Compass project in a new Google Code project :
[MF-CSS](http://code.google.com/p/mfcss/) with a GPL license. Anyone wishing to
help improving this Polaroid effect, functionnaly-speaking or to improve its
design is welcome in this project.

[1]: https://deadrooster.org/compile-mp3-du-net-01/

[fluidgrid]: {% post_url 2010-08-07-same-site-for-desktop-and-mobile %}
