---
layout: default
title: Notes from FrenchKit 2018
category: blog
---

# Notes from FrenchKit 2018

[FrenchKit](http://frenchkit.fr) 2018 was awesome. I recommend it
[again][fk2017] to any iOS/Swift developer around. Day 1 was much better than
Day 2. Two recurring topics were:

* code generation leveraging;
* and the importance of a good product management policy.

Most speakers seemed to use [Deckset](https://www.deckset.com) for their
presentations. As [often][fk2017], international speakers were much much better
than French ones.

Here are the talks I recommend.

## brew create - Max Howell

Storytelling of how Max came to create [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) and how he managed its huge
success. It's surprising he had such a product-oriented approach for such a tech
product. The whole talk was really nicely put (very minimalist use of slides and
a great video of the git activity to give a visual feeling to the growing
popularity of Brew).

Two segments particularly stood out to me:

* One about the importance of naming things (the whole brew, cellar, keg, formulae that Brew is
using);
* One about the feeling of code ownership and how to control it.

â€” [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/WMMPRS58n-o)

## Going Prod with Server-Side Swift - Pim Stolk

How an ING side-project (Banking of Things) is using server-side Swift. They
picked [Kitura](https://www.kitura.io) over [Vapor](https://vapor.codes) because
they had a good vibe from the team and they seem to work very closely together.
They had tips to use containers to be as cloud-provider agnostic as possible.

â€” [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/tRakjsKwdg4)

## Sharing Swift: writing code that scales - Florent Pillet

This was a good counterpart to Pim's talk. Florent is French and is using Vapor
server-side. He's really a big fan of
[SwiftNIO](https://github.com/apple/swift-nio) and its performances. One of his
tip was to make builds in containers locally so you can just deploy binaries to
production containers (no need for Swift compilers). He seems to have insights
straight from Apple saying that [SPM](https://swift.org/package-manager/) is not
coming to iOS anytime soon.

Both Florent & Pim consider **server-side Swift is production ready**. Kitura &
Vapor both provide [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) support which seems to be
good enough for monitoring. One of the main pain point remaining seems to be
debugging from Linux.

â€” [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/1G63BKeNfjA)

## The Lost Art of System Design - John Sundell

John is as a good showman and as energetic as reading [his
blog](https://www.swiftbysundell.com) lets you think. The talk was about how to
answer "where should we sit this piece of code?". He was advocating towards
decoupling, building frameworks, keys & lock-in to different parts of an
application. Great practical tips that were somewhat Swift-related but can be
applied to any language as well.

For instance: RootFactory creating basic objects and a LoggedFactory creating
objects once the user is logged in which translates that we're sure we can
provide a User and that we don't need to make it optional, etc.  

- [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/bAokeFxW2fo)

## Swift Strings Seven Ways - Mattt

A storytelling kind of talk about how we take strings for granted and we think
they're simple but they're not. The guy is a big name in the iOS scene â€” among
others, creator of [NSHipster](https://nshipster.com) â€”, and it was surprising
to see a talk that was sometimes borderline spiritual (he digs the Cherokee
language a lot).

But the 2nd half was way more practical about string jargons, struggles, and
tips on how to process them safely (ie override string by other types for
identifiers for instance in order to hide the complexity of string for a simple
usage, use Base64 for exchanging in a safe way, etc.)

- [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/linHwUqeagU)

## The 700 next devices - Chris Eidhof

Again, a big figure in iOS development since he started
[objc.io](https://www.objc.io). He gave a live-coding presentation of a layout
library he build for Swift that is going to be introduced in [Swift
Talks](https://talk.objc.io). The library is really useful and has a nice API
and seems somewhat influenced by flex box as a complement to AutoLayout. It will
be even more useful once UIKit gets on macOS. Tip: when using the Accessibility
inspector during development, the simulator seems super responsive.

- [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/OLDHgg0uh6A)

## The Underestimated Power of KeyPaths - Vincent Pradeilles

Lightning talk about how to use key paths to improve Swift convenience, in
particular to avoid dumb closures.

- [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/jpAT5DoSUgw)

## Improving your Developer Experience with Open-Source Swift - Dimitri Dupuis-Latour

Interesting short talk to make contributing to Swift and its environment not as
scary as it seems. Empowering mode âœŠ.

- [ðŸ“º Watch](https://youtu.be/olS5w9fBxog)

[fk2017]: {% post_url 2018-01-12-frenchkit-2017 %}
